Why does a neural network need
a non-linear activation function?
Turns out that your neural network
to compute interesting functions,
you do need to pick a non-linear
activation function, let's see one.
So, here's the four prop equations for
the neural network.
Why don't we just get rid of this?
Get rid of the function g?
And set a1 equals z1.
Or alternatively, you can say that
g of z is equal to z, all right?
Sometimes this is called
the linear activation function.
Maybe a better name for it would be
the identity activation function
because it just outputs
whatever was input.
For the purpose of this,
what if a(2) was just equal z(2)?
It turns out if you do this,
then this model is just computing y or
y-hat as a linear function
of your input features,
x, to take the first two equations.
If you have that a(1)
= Z(1) = W(1)x + b, and
then a(2) = z (2) =
W(2)a(1) + b.
Then if you take this definition of a1 and
plug it in there, you find that a2 =
w2(w1x + b1), move that up a bit.
Right?
So this is a1 + b2, and so
this simplifies to:
(W2w1)x +
(w2b1 + b2).
So this is just,
let's call this w' b'.
SO this is just equal to w' x + b'.
If you were to use linear
activation functions or
we can also call them identity
activation functions,
then the neural network is just outputting
a linear function of the input.
And we'll talk about deep networks later,
neural networks with many, many layers,
many hidden layers. And it turns out that
if you use a linear activation function or
alternatively,
if you don't have an activation function,
then no matter how many layers your neural
network has, all it's doing is just
computing a linear activation function.
So you might as well not
have any hidden layers.
Some of the cases that are briefly
mentioned, it turns out that if you have
a linear activation function here and a
sigmoid function here, then this model is
no more expressive than standard logistic
regression without any hidden layer.
So I won't bother to prove that, but
you could try to do so if you want.
But the take home is that a linear
hidden layer is more or less useless
because the composition of two linear
functions is itself a linear function.
So unless you throw a non-linear [INAUDIBLE]
in there, then you're not computing more
interesting functions even as you
go deeper in the network.
There is just one place where you might
use a linear activation function.
g(x) = z.
And that's if you are doing machine
learning on the regression problem.
So if y is a real number.
So for example, if you're trying
to predict housing prices.
So y is not 0, 1, but is a real
number, anywhere from - I don't know -
$0 is the price of house up to however
expensive, right, houses get, I guess.
Maybe houses can be potentially
millions of dollars, so
however much houses cost in your data set.
But if y takes on these real values,
then it might be okay to have
a linear activation function here so
that your output y hat is also
a real number going anywhere from
minus infinity to plus infinity.
But then the hidden units should
not use the activation functions.
They could use ReLU or tanh or
Leaky ReLU or maybe something else.
So the one place you might use
a linear activation function
is usually in the output layer.
But other than that, using a linear
activation function in the hidden layer
except for some very special circumstances
relating to compression that we're
going to talk about using the linear
activation function is extremely rare.
And, of course, if we're
actually predicting housing prices,
as you saw in the week one video, because
housing prices are all non-negative,
Perhaps even then you can use
a value activation function so
that your output y-hats are all
greater than or equal to 0.
So I hope that gives you a sense of
why having a non-linear activation
function is a critical
part of neural networks.
Next we're going to start to
talk about gradient descent and
to do that to set up for
our discussion for gradient descent,
in the next video I want to show you how
to estimate-how to compute-the slope or
the derivatives of individual
activation functions.
So let's go on to the next video.